.TH B-EDITOR 1 local
.SH NAME
B-editor \- the B editor Mark 0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I "(UNIX shell:)"
.br
BEDITOR=/b/guido/bin/Bed
.br
.B export
BEDITOR
.br
.B b
[
.I flags
]

.I "(C shell:)"
.br
.B setenv
BEDITOR /b/guido/bin/Bed
.br
.B b
[
.I flags
]

.I "(Without use of the B interpreter:)"
.br
.B /b/guido/bin/Bed
[
.BI + line
] [
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The B editor is a pilot implementation of a structure editor
for the B language.
Instead of a cursor it uses a
.I "focus of attention,"
which may be any reasonable program fragment from a single character
to any number of commands.
The focus is shown in inverse video or underlined.
.PP
The current version only supports two terminal types: the HP 2621[A]
and the HP 2640B.
For other terminal types (as indicated by the environment variable
TERM) it internally calls
.I vi.
.SH FILES
/b/guido/bin/Bed
.I "   shell script for start-up"
.br
/b/guido/bin/Beditor
.I "   binary"
.br
/b/guido/bed/*
.I "   sources"
.SH SEE ALSO
B(1)
.br
The B editor Mark 0 \- Directions for use
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Are shown on the bottom line of the screen, and accompanied
by beeps.
They are intended to be self-explanatory.
Diagnostics placed in square brackets [ ] are debug messages
and may indicate failure of operation.
.PP
Fatal errors are accompanied by core dumps and usually by the message
.br
`Fatal error:
.RI + "line file'"
.SH BUGS
When reading a B unit which was prepared with with another
editor (e.g.,
.IR vi ),
it sometimes gets confused by multiple spaces in or before expressions,
and then ignores the rest of the line.
.br
When a keyword is changed,
holes that were already filled in disappear
(e.g., PUT a IN b changes into INSERT ? IN ?).
.br
Empty command-suites are not allowed (remedy: put a comment
on a new line in them, e.g. \\pass).
.bp
.SH COMMAND SUMMARY
Function keys
.RI ( f1-f8 ):
on the HP 2621, hold down SHIFT and the named arrow key;
on the HP 2640B, hold down CONTROL and the named function key.

.TS
l l l l
l li l l.
Name	Key	Arrow	Description

WIDEN	f1	up left	Make the focus larger
NARROW	f2	down left	Make the focus smaller
SHRINK-L	f3	roll up	Make it smaller on the left
SHRINK-R	f4	roll down	Make it smaller on the right

EXTEND-L	f5	up	Extend it to the left
PREVIOUS	f6	left	Move it left
NEXT	f7	right	Move it right
EXTEND-R	f8	down	Extend it to the right
.TE

Other commands: hold down control while pressing the named letter,
or press the named special key (TAB, RETURN, BACKSPACE).

.TS
l l l.
Name	Key	Description

AFTER	control-A	Insert a hole After the focus
BEFORE	control-B	Insert a hole Before the focus
COPY	control-C	Copy to/from `copy buffer'
DELETE	control-D	Delete everything in the focus
GOTO	control-G	Go to current cursor position
REDRAW	control-L	Clear the screen and redraw it
UNDO	control-U	Undo last change(s)
EXIT	control-X	Leave the editor

ACCEPT	TAB	Go to next hole
RETURN	RETURN	Insert new line
BACKSPACE	BACKSPACE	Erase last character typed,
		or equivalent to PREVIOUS
.TE
